This folder hosts the Demo data files of two different DEVEA compatible species.


- For _Mus musculus_:

**1.rawCounts_groupsKIJAK2vsGFP_Mus-musculus.xlsx** -> Counting Matrix (**CM**), containing the raw number of counts per gene, in ENSEMBL annotation.

**2.design_groupsKIJAK2vsGFP_Mus-musculus.xlsx** -> Sample Information (**SI**), as a data frame comprising metadata about each sample from the previous **CM**. For this case, if you select the column **'AAV'** for the design inside DEVEA, the **AAV_JAK_vs_GFP** contrast will be proposed to generate the analysis.

**3.DESeqObject_groupsKIJAK2vsGFP_Mus-musculus.RDS** -> DeseqDataSet object (**DO**) generated by the **DESeq()** function from DESeq2 package from the previous **CM + SI** data. It has been created with _design = ~AAV_.

**4.GeneList-STATS_groupsKIJAK2vsGFP_Mus-musculus.xlsx** -> Gene List (**GL**) in ENSEMBL annotation with associated statistical values (**SV**) per gene, extracted from the analysis of the previous more complex objects.

**5.GeneList_groupsKIJAK2vsGFP_Mus-musculus.xlsx** -> Gene List (**GL**) consisting on a single column of gene names in ENSEMBL annotation.

There is also a **universe_Musmusculus.txt** file containing a list of genes to simulate a custom background for the enrichment analysis part, that can be included in DEVEA.


- For _Arabidopsis thaliana_:

**1.rawCounts_groupsMUvsWT_Arabidopsis-thaliana.xlsx** -> Counting Matrix (**CM**), containing the raw number of counts per gene, in TAIR annotation.

**2.design_groupsMUvsWT_Arabidopsis-thaliana.xlsx** -> Sample Information (**SI**), as a data frame comprising metadata about each sample from the previous **CM**. For this case, if you select the column **'grp'** for the design inside DEVEA, the **grp_wt_vs_mut** contrast will be proposed to generate the analysis.

**3.DESeqObject_groupsMUvsWT_Arabidopsis-thaliana.RDS** -> DeseqDataSet object (**DO**) generated by the **DESeq()** function from DESeq2 package from the previous **CM + SI** data. It has been created with _design = ~grp_.

**4.GeneList-STATS_groupsMUvsWT_Arabidopsis-thaliana.xlsx** -> Gene List (**GL**) in TAIR annotation with associated statistical values (**SV**) per gene, extracted from the analysis of the previous more complex objects.

**5.GeneList_groupsMUvsWT_Arabidopsis-thaliana.xlsx** -> Gene List (**GL**) consisting on a single column of gene names in TAIR annotation.




For further information on the **Demo data background**, please visit the 'Use case' section of Riquelme-Perez M, Perez-Sanz F, et al. DEVEA: an interactive shiny application for Differential Expression analysis, data Visualization and Enrichment Analysis of transcriptomics data [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations]. F1000Research 2022, 11:711 (https://doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.122949.1)
